---
title:  Type-Driven Development of SoC Architectures.
tags: idris,soc,hardware,substructural-type-systems,dependent-types,glasgow,tdd,systems
...

Jan gave an internal seminar at the local [Systems Seminar](https://www.gla.ac.uk/schools/computing/research/researchsections/systems-section/#/seminarseries).

This talk was an extended version of his earlier [SPLS talk](https://border-patrol.github.io/posts/2018-10-17-SPLS.md).

> The protocols that describe the interactions between IP Cores on
> System-on-a-Chip (SoC) architectures are well-documented, describing
> not only the structural properties of the physical interfaces but
> also the behaviour of the emanating signals.  However, there is a
> disconnect between the design of SoC architectures, their formal
> description, and the verification of their implementation in known
> hardware description languages.
>
> Within the Border Patrol project we are investigating how to model
> the structural and behavioural properties of SoC architectures using
> state-of-the-art advances in programming language research.  Namely,
> we are investigating how dependent types and session types can be
> leveraged to model hardware communication at design and runtime.
>
> In this talk I will discuss my work in designing a modelling
> language with a substructural type-system that reasons about the
> structure of SoC Architectures.  This language provide
> correct-by-construction guarantees over:
>
> + the physical structure of an interaction protocol;
> + the adherence of a component’s interface to a given protocol; and
> + the validity of the connections made between components.
>
> We provide these guarantees by: (ab)using dependent types as
> presented within Idris; using novel ideas from programming language
> design such as Session Types and Thinnings; and incorporating novel
> ideas to reason about effectful programs, namely Hoare Monads and
> Resource-Dependent Algebraic Effects.

Slides are not available.
