---
title:  Revisiting Type-Driven Design of Communicating Systems
tags: idris,hardware,substructural-type-systems,session-types,dependent-types,glasgow,plug,tdd
...

Jan gave an internal seminar at [PLUG](http://www.dcs.gla.ac.uk/plug/) in which he discussed work on implementing global session descriptions as an EDSL within [Idris](https://www.idris-lang.org).

The abstract is:

> Communication protocols are a cornerstone of modern system design.
> However, there is a disconnect between the tooling used to design, implement and reason about these protocols and their implementations.
> Session Types offer a typing discipline that helps resolve this difference by allowing protocol specifications to be used during type-checking, ensuring that implementations adhere to a given specification.
> Session Type implementations are, however, limited in their expressiveness in protocol design and implementation.
>
> In previous (unpublished) joint work with Edwin Brady, we investigated how to realise a Multi-Party Session-Types inspired language within the dependently typed language Idris. Our work allowed rich protocol descriptions to be described in, and intrinsicly linked, to the protocol implementation: communicating systems were correct-by-construction.
> A major limitation of our work was that we could not reason competently about value-dependent messages.
> These are messages that rely upon values previously seen in the protocol.
>
> Recently, I have had a chance to revisit this work and found a interesting solution using /Resource Dependent EDSLs/ to describe value dependent session descriptions.
> In this talk I will describe the underlying construction techniques employed; demonstrate the ability of our new session description language to describe interesting protocols; and discuss future directions and re-visitations of my previous work.

Slides are not available.
