---
title: A Framework for Resource Dependent EDSLs in a Dependently Typed Language
tags: idris,dependent-types,border-patrol,paper,ecoop
...

The Glasgow site are very pleased to announce that their [ECOOP 2020](https://conf.researchr.org/home/ecoop-2020/) paper & conference video describing a framework
for constructing Resource Dependent EDSLs in a Dependently Typed
Language is now live.
This is joint work with [Edwin Brady](https://twitter.com/edwinbrady).

> Idris' `Effects` library demonstrates how to embed resource
> dependent algebraic effect handlers into a dependently typed host
> language, providing run-time and compile-time based reasoning on
> type-level resources.  Building upon this work, `RESOURCES` is a
> framework for realising *Embedded Domain Specific Languages* (EDSLs)
> with type systems that contain domain specific substructural
> properties.  Differing from `Effects`, `RESOURCES` allows a
> language's substructural properties to be encoded within type-level
> resources that are associated with language variables.  Such an
> association allows for multiple effect instances to be reasoned
> about autonomically and without explicit type-level declaration.
> Type-level predicates are used as proof that the language's
> substructural properties hold.  Several exemplar EDSLs are presented
> that illustrates our framework's operation and how dependent types
> provide correctness-by-construction guarantees that substructural
> properties of written programs hold.


[The paper and video can be found online on the conference website](https://2020.ecoop.org/details/ecoop-2020-papers/20/A-Framework-for-Resource-Dependent-EDSLs-in-a-Dependently-Typed-Language).

Apologies in advance for the quiet audio!
